# 2021.10

## 2021.10.2
**abroad**
We never travelled abroad when we were kids.

**absence**
Her work involved repeated absences from home.

**absorb**
Her capacity to absorb information is amazing.

**academic**
a pragram to raise academic standards

**accpeptable**
Students who achieve an acceptable standard will progress to degree studies.

**accident** 
Over 70,000 people are seriously injured every year in road accidents.

**accommodation**
The price for the holiday includes flights and accommodation.

**accompany**
Children under 14 must be accompany by an adult.

**account**
He was too shocked to give an account of what had happened.

**accurate** 
The brochure tries to give a fair and accurate description of each hotel.

**accuse**
The professor stands accused of stealing his student's ideas and publishing them.

**acid**
I was expecting another of his acide remarks, but he remained silent.

**acknowledge**
many of the poor acknowledge him as their spriritual leader.

**across**
- come across  
They ran straight across the road.

## 2021.10.3

**activist**
He was an activist by total commitment, and  a professioanal.

**activity**
Everyone is free to engage in peaceful political activity.

**actor**
She has starred with many leading actors.

**actual**
In actual fact, there is little evidence to support the allegations.

**actually**
Actually,on second thoughts, i don't want to go out tonight.

**adapt**
The ability to adapt is a definite asset in this job.

**adequate**
Farmers have been slow to make adequate provision for their retirement.

**administration**
the health service spends too much on administration.

**administrative**
staff who provide technical and administrative support to the college

**admire**
I really admire the way she brings up those kids all on her own.

**admission**
Silence is ofen interpreted as an admission of guilt.

**adult**
the film is reted R for language and adult themes.
**advenced**

**advert**
advertisement

**adviser**
a financial adviser

**affair**
the whole affaire was a disaster.

**afraid**
the government was afraid of a public outcry.

**agency**
a local housing agency

**aggressive**
Teachers apparently expect a certain amout of aggessive behavior from boys.

**agree**
if she felt he was right.she would agree with him.

**agriculture**
More than 75% of the land is used for argiculture.

**ahead**
There were four people ahead of me at the doctor's.

## 2020.10.4

**baseball**
baseball cap

**basis**
Their claim had no basis in fact.

**battery**
when the red light comes on, we should recharge the battery.

**battle**
a long-running legel battle

**beach**
a sandy beach

**bear**
The humiliation was more than he could bear.

**beard**
beard means hair that grow around a man's chin and cheeks.

**beat**
rain beating oon the windows

**beautiful**
she was even more beautifule than I had remembered.

**beauty**
an area of outstanding natual beauty

## 2021.10.5

**border**
regular patrols along the border with France.

**bored**
After a while, I got bored and left.

**borrow**
you are allowed to borrow six books from the library at a time.

**both**
Boths Helen's parents are doctors.

**bother**
Many young people didn't bother voting.

**bottle**
Between us, we drink three bottles of wine.

**bottom**
Go downstairs and wait for me at the bottom.

**bounce**
The ball bounced off the post and into the goal.

**bound**
When you are dealing with so many patients, mistakes are bound to happen.

**bowl**
Beat the butter in a mixing bowl until creamy and soft.

## 2021.10.6

**brick**
Protesters attacked police with stones and bricks.

**bridge**
a scheme to build bridges between the police and community

**bright**
He was an exceptionally bright child.

**brilliant**
He had a long and brilliant career.

**bring**
They brought news of further fighting along the border.

**broad**
abroad
broadcast
the room is three metres long and two metres broad.

**brown**
He'd been on vacation and looked very brown.

**brush**
His first brush with law came when he was 16.

**bump**
The roof was so low he bumped his head.

**burst**
The pipes had burst and the horse was under.

## 2021.10.10
**circuit**
a well-known entertainner on the club circuit

**civil**
they are married in a civil ceremony in May.

**claim**
The product claims that it can make you thin with dieting.

**clerk**
a clerk in a commercial firm

**click**
Choose the image you want by clicking twice.

**client**
a meeting with an important client

**climate**
Small businesses are finding it hard to survive in the present economic climate.

**climb**
The divorce rate had climbed to almost 30% of all marriages.

**closet**
a closet full of beautiful clothes

**cloud**
Dark clouds floated across the moom.

## 2021.10.11
**club**
Our chess club really need more members.

**clue**
This information is a valuable clue in out hunt for the bombers.

**coach**
a tennis coach

**coal**
Put some coal on the fire.

**coast**
I used to live in a small village on the coast.

**coat**
I need a new winter coat.



