
## 1
Principle 2: The Cost of Something Is What You Give Up to Get It

Because people face trade-offs, making decisions requires comparing the costs and benefits of `alternative` `courses` of action. 

In many cases, however, the cost of an action is not as `obvious` as it might first `appear`.

---

Consider the decision to go to college. 

The main benefits are intellectual enrichment and a lifetime of better job opportunities. 

But what are the costs? 

To answer this question, you might be tempted to `add` up the money you spend on tuition, books, room, and `board`. 

Yet this total does not truly represent what you give up to spend a year in college.

## 2
There are two problems with this calculation.

First, it includes some things that are not really costs of going to college. 

Even if you `quit` school, you need a place to sleep and food to eat. 

Room and board are costs of going to college only to the `extent` that they are more expensive at college than elsewhere. 

Second, this calculation ignores the largest cost of going to college—your time. 

When you spend a year listening to lectures, reading `textbooks`, and writing papers, you can not spend that time working at a job. 

For most students, the earnings they give up to attend school are the single largest cost of their education.

---

The opportunity cost of an item is what you give up to get that item. 

When making any decision, decision makers should be `aware` of the opportunity costs that `accompany` each possible action.

In fact, they usually are. 

College `athletes` who can earn millions 
if they drop out of school and play professional sports 
are well aware that the opportunity cost of their attending college is very high. 

It is not surprising that they often `decide` that the benefit of a college education is not `worth` the cost.