## 1
Principle 3: `Rational` People Think at the `Margin`

`Economists` normally assume that people are rational. 

Rational people `systematically` and `purposefully` do the best they can to achieve their objectives, 
given the available opportunities. 

As you study `economics`, you will encounter `firms` that 
decide how many workers to `hire` and how much of their product to manufacture 
and sell to `maximize` `profits`. 

You will also encounter individuals who decide 
how much time to spend working and what goods and services to buy with the `resulting` income 
to achieve the highest possible `level` of satisfaction.

## 2
`Rational` people know that decisions in life are `rarely` black and white 
but usually `involve` `shades` of gray. 

At dinnertime, the question you face is not “Should I fast or eat like a pig?” 

More likely, you will be asking yourself “Should I take that `extra` `spoonful` of `mashed` potatoes?” 

When `exams` roll around, your decision is not between blowing them off and studying twenty-four hours a day but whether to spend an extra hour reviewing your `notes` instead of watching TV. 

Economists use the term marginal change to `describe` a small incremental `adjustment` to an `existing` plan of action. 

Keep in mind that margin means “edge,” 
so marginal changes are adjustments around the `edges` of what you are doing. 

Rational people often make decisions by comparing marginal benefits and marginal costs.

## 3
For example, `suppose` you are considering `calling` a friend on your cell phone.

You decide that talking with her for 10 `minutes` would give you a benefit that you value at about $7. 

Your cell phone service costs you $40 `per` month plus $0.50 per
minute for whatever `calls` you make. 

You usually talk for 100 `minutes` a month,so your total monthly bill is $90 ($0.50 per minute times 100 minutes, plus the $40 `fixed` fee). 

Under these `circumstances`, should you make the call? 

You might be tempted to `reason` as follows: “Because I pay $90 for 100 `minutes` of `calling` each month, the average minute on the phone costs me $0.90. 

So a 10-minute call costs $9. 

Because that $9 cost is greater than the $7 benefit, 
I am going to `skip` the call.” 

That conclusion is wrong, however. 

Although the average cost of a 10-minute call is $9, the marginal cost—the amount your bill increases if you make the extra call—is only $5. 

You will make the right decision only by comparing the marginal benefit and the marginal cost. 

Because the marginal benefit of $7 is greater than the marginal cost of $5, you should make the call. 

This is a principle that people `innately` understand: Cell phone users with unlimited minutes(that is, minutes that are free at the margin) are often `prone` to make long and `frivolous` calls.

## 4
Thinking at the margin `works for` business decisions as well. 

Consider an airline deciding how much to charge passengers who fly standby. 

Suppose that flying a 200-seat plane across the United States costs the airline $100,000. 

In this case,the average cost of each seat is $100,000/200, which is $500. 

One might be tempted to conclude that the airline should never sell a ticket for less than $500. 

But a rational airline can increase its `profits` by thinking at the margin. 

`Imagine` that a plane is about to take off with 10 empty seats and a standby passenger waiting at the
gate is willing to pay $300 for a seat. 

Should the airline sell the ticket? 

Of course,it should. 

If the plane has empty seats, the cost of adding one more passenger is `tiny`. 

The average cost of flying a passenger is $500, but the marginal cost is `merely`
the cost of the bag of `peanuts` and can of `soda` that the extra passenger will consume.

As long as the standby passenger pays more than the marginal cost, selling
the ticket is `profitable`.

---

`work for`  
`as well`  
`consider`   
`suppose that`   
`imagine that`  
`might be tempted to`   
`as long as`  

## 5
Marginal decision making can help explain some otherwise `puzzling` economic phenomena. 

Here is a classic question: Why is water so cheap, while `diamonds` are so expensive? 

Humans `need` water to `survive`, while diamonds are unnecessary;
but for some reason, people are willing to pay much more for a diamond than for a cup of water. 

The reason is that a person’s `willingness` to pay for a good is based on the marginal benefit that an extra unit of the good would `yield`.

The marginal benefit, in turn, depends on how many `units` a person `already` has.

Water is essential, but the marginal benefit of an extra cup is small because water is `plentiful`. 

By contrast, no one `needs` diamonds to survive, but because diamonds
are so `rare`, people consider the marginal benefit of an extra diamond to be large.

---

A rational decision maker takes an action if and only if the marginal benefit of
the action `exceeds` the marginal cost.   

This principle explains why people use their cell phones as much as they do, why airlines are willing to sell tickets below average
cost, and why people are willing to pay more for diamonds than for water.  

It can take some time to get used to the `logic` of marginal thinking, but the study of
economics will give you `ample` opportunity to practice. 

---

logic -- logical
needs - leaves
