
## 2
Public policymakers should never forget about incentives: Many policies change
the costs or benefits that people face and, as a result, `alter` their behavior. A tax on
`gasoline`, for instance, encourages people to drive smaller, more `fuel`-efficient cars.
That is one reason people drive smaller cars in Europe, where gasoline `taxes` are
high, than in the United States, where gasoline taxes are low. A higher gasoline
tax also encourages people to `carpool`, take public transportation, and live closer
to where they work. If the tax were larger, more people would be driving `hybrid`
cars, and if it were large enough, they would switch to electric cars.

## 3
When policymakers fail to consider how their policies affect incentives, they
often end up with `unintended` `consequences`. For example, consider public policy
regarding auto safety. Today, all cars have seat belts, but this was not true fifty
years ago. In the 1960s, Ralph Nader’s book Unsafe at Any Speed generated much
public concern over auto safety. Congress responded with laws requiring seat
belts as standard equipment on new cars.


## 4
How does a seat belt law affect auto safety? 
The direct effect is obvious: 
When a person wears a seat belt, the probability of surviving an auto accident rises. 
But that’s not the end of the story because the law also affects behavior by altering incentives. 
The relevant behavior here is the speed and care with which drivers operate their cars. 
Driving slowly and carefully is costly because it uses the driver’s time and energy. 
When deciding how safely to drive, rational people compare,
perhaps unconsciously, 
the marginal benefit from safer driving to the marginal cost. 
As a result, they drive more slowly and carefully when the benefit of increased safety is high. 
For example, when road conditions are icy, 
people drive more attentively and at lower speeds than they do when road conditions are clear.

## 5
Consider how a seat belt law alters a driver’s cost–benefit calculation. Seat belts
make accidents less costly because they reduce the likelihood of injury or death.
In other words, seat belts reduce the benefits of slow and careful driving. 
People respond to seat belts as they would to an improvement in road conditions—by
driving faster and less carefully. The result of a seat belt law, therefore, is a larger
number of accidents. The decline in safe driving has a clear, adverse impact on
pedestrians, who are more likely to find themselves in an accident but (unlike the
drivers) don’t have the benefit of added protection.

## 6
At first, this discussion of incentives and seat belts might seem like `idle speculation`. 
Yet in a classic 1975 study, economist Sam Peltzman argued that auto-
safety laws have had many of these effects. According to Peltzman’s evidence,
these laws produce both fewer deaths per accident and more accidents. He `concluded` that the `net result` is little change in the number of driver deaths and an
increase in the number of pedestrian deaths.


Peltzman’s analysis of auto safety is an `offbeat` and `controversial` example of
the general principle that people respond to incentives. 
When analyzing any policy, we must consider not only the direct effects but also the less obvious indirect effects that work through incentives. 
If the policy changes incentives, it will cause people to `alter` their behavior.