# 2021.10

## 2021.10.2

**absence**
Her work involved repeated absences from home.

**absorb**
Her capacity to absorb information is amazing.

**academic**
a pragram to raise academic standards

**accpeptable**
Students who achieve an acceptable standard will progress to degree studies.

**accommodation**
The price for the holiday includes flights and accommodation.

**accompany**
Children under 14 must be accompany by an adult.

**account**
He was too shocked to give an account of what had happened.

**acid**
I was expecting another of his acide remarks, but he remained silent.

**acknowledge**
many of the poor acknowledge him as their spriritual leader.

**accross**
They ran straight across the road.

## 2021.10.3

**abroad**
we never travelled abroad when we were kid.

**adult**
the film is reted R for language and adult themes.

**advert**
advertisement

**adviser**
a financial adviser

**affair**
the whole affaire was a disaster.

**afraid**
the government was afraid of a public outcry.

**agency**
a local housing agency

**aggressive**
Teachers apparently expect a certain amout of aggessive behavior from boys.

**agress**
if she felt he was right.she would agress with him.

**agriculture**
More than 75% of the land is used for argiculture.

## 2020.10.4

**baseball**
baseball cap

**basis**
Their claim had no basis in fact.

**battery**
when the red light comes on, we should recharge the battery.

**battle**
a long-running legel battle

**beach**
a sandy beach

**bear**
The humiliation was more than he could bear.

**beard**
beard means hair that grow around a man's chin and cheeks.

**beat**
rain beating oon the windows

**beautiful**
she was even more beautifule than I had remembered.

**beauty**
an area of outstanding natual beauty

## 2021.10.5

**border**
regular patrols along the border with France.

**bored**
After a while, I got bored and left.

**borrow**
you are allowed to borrow six books from the library at a time.

**both**
Boths Helen's parents are doctors.

**bother**
Many young people didn't bother voting.

**bottle**
Between us, we drink three bottles of wine.

**bottom**
Go downstairs and wait for me at the bottom.

**bounce**
The ball bounced off the post and into the goal.

**bound**
When you are dealing with so many patients, mistakes are bound to happen.

**bowl**
Beat the butter in a mixing bowl until creamy and soft.

## 2021.10.06

**brick**
Protesters attacked police with stones and bricks.

**bridge**
a scheme to build bridges between the police and community

**bright**
He was an exceptionally bright child.

**brilliant**
He had a long and brilliant career.

**bring**
They brought news of further fighting along the border.

**broad**
abroad
broadcast
the room is three metres long and two metres broad.

**brown**
He'd been on vacation and looked very brown.

**brush**
His first brush with law came when he was 16.

**bump**
The roof was so low he bumped his head.

**burst**
The pipes had burst and the horse was under.
