## 1
**abroad**
We never travelled abroad when we were kids.  

**absence**
Her work involved repeated absences from home.

**absorb**
Her capacity to absorb information is amazing.

**academic**
`/ˌækə/`
a program to raise academic standards

**acceptable**
Students who achieve an acceptable standard will progress to degree studies.

**accident**
`/ˈæk/` 
Over 70,000 people are seriously injured every year in road accidents.

**accommodation**
The price for the holiday includes flights and accommodation.

**accompany**
Children under 14 must be accompany by an adult.

**account**
He was too shocked to give an account of what had happened.

**accurate** 
The brochure tries to give a fair and accurate description of each hotel.

## 2
**accuse**
The professor stands accused of stealing his student's ideas and publishing them.

**acid**
`/ˈæsɪd/`
I was expecting another of his acid remarks, but he remained silent.

**acknowledge**
many of the poor acknowledge him as their spiritual leader.

**across**
- come across  
They ran straight across the road.

**activist**
He was an activist by total commitment, and  a professional.

**activity**
Everyone is free to engage in peaceful political activity.

**actor**
She has starred with many leading actors.

**actual**
In actual fact, there is little evidence to support the allegations.

**actually**
Actually,on second thoughts, i don't want to go out tonight.

**adapt**
The ability to adapt is a definite asset in this job.

## 3
**adequate** 
`ˈædɪ`
Farmers have been slow to make adequate provision for their retirement.

**administration**
the health service spends too much on administration.

**administrative**
staff who provide technical and administrative support to the college

**admire**
I really admire the way she brings up those kids all on her own.

**admission**
Silence is often interpreted as an admission of guilt.

**adult**
the film is rated R for language and adult themes.

**advanced**
advanced weapon systems

**advert**
advertisement

**adviser**
a financial adviser

**affair**
the whole affair was a disaster.

## 4
**afraid**
the government was afraid of a public outcry.

**agency**
a local housing agency

**aggressive**
Teachers apparently expect a certain amount of aggressive behavior from boys.

**agree**
if she felt he was right.she would agree with him.

**agriculture**
More than 75% of the land is used for agriculture.