## 1
**abroad**
We never travelled abroad when we were kids.

**absence**
Her work involved repeated absences from home.

**absorb**
Her capacity to absorb information is amazing.

**acceptable**
Students who achieve an acceptable standard will progress to degree studies.

**accommodation**
The price for the holiday includes flights and accommodation.

**accompany**
Children under 14 must be accompany by an adult.

**account**
He was too shocked to give an account of what had happened.

**accurate** 
The brochure tries to give a fair and accurate description of each hotel.

**acid**
`/ˈæsɪd/`
I was expecting another of his acid remarks, but he remained silent.

**acknowledge**
many of the poor acknowledge him as their spiritual leader.

**across**
- come across  
They ran straight across the road.

**activity**
Everyone is free to engage in peaceful political activity.

**actual**
In actual fact, there is little evidence to support the allegations.

**actually**
Actually,on second thoughts, i don't want to go out tonight.

**adapt**
The ability to adapt is a definite asset in this job.

**adequate**
Farmers have been slow to make adequate provision for their retirement.

**administration**
the health service spends too much on administration.

**administrative**
staff who provide technical and administrative support to the college

**admission**
Silence is often interpreted as an admission of guilt.

**advanced**
advanced weapon systems

**advert**
advertisement

**affair**
the whole affair was a disaster.

**aggressive**
Teachers apparently expect a certain amount of aggressive behavior from boys.

**ahead**
There were four people ahead of me at the doctor's.

**allow**
`/aʊ/`
Are dictionaries allowed in the exam?

**allowance**
If you are entitled to sickness allowance,you must claim it from your employer.

**almost**
The story is almost certainly true.

**although**
`/ˈɔːl/`
No, this is my responsibility,although I appreciate your offer.

**ambition**
`/æm/`
She had always had an ambition to be a pilot.

**among**
`/əˈmʌŋ/`
The girl quickly disappeared among the crowd.

**amount**
`/əˈmaʊn/`
Her case has attracted an enormous amount of public sympathy.

**ancient** 
`/eɪn/`
That phote makes me look ancient.

**annual**
`/æn/`
The school trip has become an annual event.

## 3
**apparently**
She turned to face him, her anger apparently gone.

**appointment**
I 'd like to make a appointment to see the doctor.

**appropriate**
It would not appropriate for me to discuss that now.

**approximate**
What 's the approximate number of students in each class.

**area**
`/ˈe/`
Crime rates are much higher in urban areas.


## 1
**argument**
There are a lot of arguments about who was responsible for the accident.

**army**
`/ˈɑː/`
Both my sons are in the army.

**arrange**
`/ə/`
Contact your local branch to arrange an appointment.

**arrival**
Traffic problems account for one third of late arrivals.

**arrive**
Give me a call to let me know you've arrived safely.

**article**
`/ˈɑː/`
She only took a few articles of clothing with her.

**artificial**
artificial flowers

**aside**
`/əˈs/`
Could you put the cake aside for me?

**aspect**
`/ˈæ/`
Dealing with people is the most important aspect of my work.

**assess**
`/əˈ/` `/e/`
Many of adults were assessed as having learning difficulties.

## 2
**assessment**
a reading assessment test

**assumption**
My calculations were based on the assumption that house price remain steady.

**assure**
The dealer had assured me of its quality.

**attack**
There have been several attacks on foreigners recently.

**attempt**
She passed her driving test at the first attempt.

**attention**
If you paid more attention in class, you might actually learn something.

**authority**
Only the president has the authority to declare war.

**automatic**
My camera is fully automatic.

**automatically**
the door open automatically as we approached.

**average**
`/ˈæ/`
The age of the candidates ranged from 29 to 49 with an average age of 37.

**avoid**
`/ə/`
Road safety taught to young children to avoid road accidents.

**awake**
I hope he's awake now.

**award**
The movie has won a number of awards.

## 4

**awareness**
an artist's awareness of light and color

**badly**
The company has been very badly managed.

**barrier**
Problems with childcare remain the biggest barrier to women succeeding at work.

## 1


**basis**
Their claim had no basis in fact.

**bath**
bat-bath-battery-battle
After a week of camping, i really needed a bath.



**battle**
a long-running legel battle

**bear**
`/eə/`
The humiliation was more than he could bear.

**beautiful**
she was even more beautifule than I had remembered.

**beauty**
an area of outstanding natual beauty

## 2
**beforehand**
When we give a speech, it's natural to feel nervous beforehand.

**beginning**
She's been here since the beginning of the year.

**behalf**
On behalf of everyone here, may I wish you a very happy retirement.

**being**
You can't expect them sit still for that long, children being what they are.

**belief**
When you get something wrong, it can shake your belief in yourself.

**below**
The kitchen is directly below her bedroom.



**beneath**
`/bɪˈniː/`
some roofs collapsed beneath the weight of so much snow.

## 3
**bitter**
The couple are locked in a bitter battle for custody of the children.

**blade**
The blade of the knife flashed in the moonlight.

**blank**
Zoe looked at me with a blank expression.

## 4
**block**
`/ɒ/`
a block of ice

**blow**
`/əʊ/`
A cold breeze was blowing hard.

**board**
`/ɔː/`
I 'll check the departure board for train times.

**boiler**
`/ɔɪ/`
boiler room

**boiling**
It was a boiling hot morning.

**bomb**
`/ɒ/`
Voices of dissent began to rise against the bomb.

## 5
dark l -->`/l/`

## 1

**border**
`/ɔː/`
regular patrols along the border with France.

**bored**
After a while, I got bored and left.

**born**
Swift was born in 1667.





**both**
Boths Helen's parents are doctors.

**bother**
Many young people didn't bother voting.

**bottle**
Between us, we drink three bottles of wine.

**bottom**
Go downstairs and wait for me at the bottom.

## 2
**bounce**
The ball bounced off the post and into the goal.

**bound**
When you are dealing with so many patients, mistakes are bound to happen.

**brave**
Despite their captain's brave performance,Arsenal lost 2-1.



**brick**
Protesters attacked police with stones and bricks.

## 3
**bright**
He was an exceptionally bright child.

**brilliant**
He had a long and brilliant career.

**bring**
They brought news of further fighting along the border.

**broad**
abroad
broadcast
the room is three metres long and two metres broad.

**bump**
`/ʌm/`
The roof was so low he bumped his head.

**bunch**
`/ʌn/`
He had a bunch of keys on his belt.

## 4
**burn**
An average household candle will burn for six hours.

**burst**
`/ɜː/`
The pipes had burst and the horse was under two feet of water.

**by**

**bye**

**calculator**

**calendar**
The derby is a major event in the racing calendar.

## 5
**calm**
`/ɑː/`
The financial markets are calm at the moment.

**camp**
`/æm/`
It is dark by the time we pitched camp.

**campaign**
Police have launched a campaign to crack down on drug dealers.


## 1
**capable**
`/ˈkeɪ/`
Blackburn now look to be the only team capable of catching scum.

**capacity**
`/kə/`
The factory has been working at full capacity.





**care**
`/eə/`
Care facilities for elderly is inadequate.



**careful**
Be careful to dispose of your litter properly.

**carefully**
You need to think very carefully about which course you want to do.




**cast**
`/kɑː/`
The allegations cast a cloud over the Mayor's visit.

## 2


**catalogue**
`/æ/`
a catalogue of terrorist crimes

**category**
Voters fall into  three main categories.

**cease**
`/iː/`
The thing people will do for charity never cease to amaze me.

**cell**
`/e/`
a car powered by electric fuel cells





**centimetre**
It used to take centuries to build up a centimetre or two of topsoil.

**central**
Owen played a central role in the negotiations.

**centre**
It’s not exactly a cultural center like Paris.

## 3




**certainly**
It is certainly true that there are more courses on offer.

**certificate**
a degree certificate

**chain**
`/eɪn/`
The salesmen are just one link in the chain (=part of a process) of distribution.



**chairman**
Potts was appointed chairman of the education committee.

**challenge**
`/ˈtʃæ/`
I relish the challenge of rebuilding the club.

**champion**
`/æm/`
the Olympic champion

**championship**
Greece won the European Championship.

**chance**
There is little chance of her being found alive.

## 4
**channel**
`/æ/`
The kids are watching cartoons on the Disney channel.



**chapter**
a new chapter peace and cooperation

**character**
Everyone recognizes Disney's cartoon characters.

**characteristic**
Violent images are a defining characteristic of his work.

**characterize**
`characterize somebody as (being) something`
The group was characterized as being well-educated and liberal.

**chase**
Top graduates from the university are chased by major companies.





## 5
**chemistry**
It’s obvious that there’s a very real chemistry between them.



**cherry**
a bunch of cherries



**chief**
`/iː/`
She had many reasons for taking the money, but chief among them was revenge.













## 1


**circuit**
`/kɪt/`
a well-known entertainner on the club circuit

**circumstance**
`/'sɜː/` 1'
Prisoners can only leave their cells under certain circumstances.

**civil**
`/ˈsɪ/` 1'
they are married in a civil ceremony in May.

**claim**
`/eɪm/`
The product claims that it can make you thin with dieting.


**clever**
He was clever at finding bargains.

**climate**
Small businesses are finding it hard to survive in the present economic climate.



## 2
**club**
Our chess club really need more members.





**coal**
`/əʊ/`
Put some coal on the fire.





**code**
Each state in US. has different criminal and civil code.



**collapse**
`/kə/`
The roof had collapsed long ago.



## 3


**collect**
`/kə/`
The company collects information about consumer trends.

**collection**
we'll be taking up collection at the end of tonight service.





**column**
`/ˈkɑː/`
He writes a weekly column for "The Times"

**combination**
`/kəm/` `/bɪ/`
A combination of tact and authority was needed to deal with this situation.

**combine**
Diets are most effective when combined with exercise.

**comfort**
`/ˈkʌm/` 1'
All our sports shoes are designed for comfort and performance.

**comfortable** 1'
The bed wasn't particularly comfortable.

## 4
**command**
`/kə/` `/ˈmɑːn/`
The fire officer took command, ordering everyone to leave the building.



**commission**
The Government set up a commission to investigate allegations of police violence.

**committee**
He’s on the finance committee.

**community**
The new arts centre will serve the whole community.

**comparision**
`/kəm/` `/ˈpæ/` `/sn/` 2'
In comparision to other recent video games, this one isn't very exciting.

**competitive**
`/ˈpe/`
Competitive sports encourage children to work together as a team.

**completely**
`/ˈpliː/`
I'm not completely sure.

## 5
**complicated**
Mental illness is a very complicated subject.

**component**
Exercise is one of the key components of a heathy lifestyle.

**comprehensive**
`/ˈhen/` 3'
The following guildlines do not aim to be totally comprehensive.

## 1
**comprise**
The house comprises two bedrooms,a kitchen,and a living room.

**concentrate**
Construction of the aircraft is concentrated at Prestwick.

**concentration**
She needed all her powers of concentration to stop her from slipping on icy road.

**concern** 
`/kən/`

**concert**
`/ˈkɑːn/`
We were going to a concert in Bath Abbey.

**conclude**
The report concluded that the school should be closed immediately.

**conference**
After a brief conference with his aides, he left for the airport.

**confine**
Owen did not confine himself to writing only one type of poem.

**conflict**
Doctors exercise considerable power and often come into conflict with politicians.



**congratulation**
I 've just passed my driving test！ Congratulations!

## 2
**conscious**
The driver was still conscious when the ambulance arrived.

**consciousness**
This will increase public consciousness of the pollution issue.

**consent**
He took the car without the owner's consent.

**consist**
The audience consisted mainly of teenagers.

**consistent**
The results are consistent with earlier research.

**constant**
He kept in constant contact with his family while he was in Australia.

**constantly**
He talked constantly about his work.

**construction**
The hotel is currently under construction.

**consult**
An increasing number of people are consulting their accountants about their tax laws.



## 3
**consumption**
The consumption of alcohol on the premises is forbiden.

**contact**
There is very litte contact between the two tribes.

**contain**
The museum contains a lot of original artworks.

**contemporary**
The wall are thought to be roughly contemporary with the floors.

**content**
The content of media course includes scripting, editing and camera work.

**contest**
It is clear that the election will be a close contest.

**context**
To appreciate what these changes will mean, it is necessary to look at them in context.

**continuous**
continuous economic growth



**contrast**
While there are similarities in the two cultures,there are also great contrasts.

## 4
**convenient**
My secretary will call you to arrange a convenient time to meet.

**convention**
Playing together teaches children social conventions such as sharing.

**conventional**
As traffic grew, the conventional wisdom was to widen the roads.

**conversation**
Children quickly get bored by adult conversation.

**convert**
The stocks can be easily converted to cash.

**conviction**
The dozens have a deep conviction that marriage is for life.

**convince**
Her argument didn't convince everyone ,but the changes were made.



**cooperation**
Have your passports ready, and thank for your cooperation.

**cope**
She feared she wouldn't be able to cope with two new babies.

## 5 
**core**
The core of the book forces on the period between 1660 and 1857.

**corn**
All our chickens are fed on corn.

**corner**
The TV station's name appears in the corner of screen.

**corridor**
we had to wait outside in the corridor until our names were called.

## 1






**course**
`/ɔː/`
*cause*
of course, there are exceptions to every rule.




**cow**
`/aʊ/`
beef cows

**crack**
`/æ/`
Concrete is liable to crack in very cold weather.



## 2




**creature**
a poll tax was a creature of the government.

**credit**
`/ˈkre/`
Most new cars are bought on credit.





**crisis**
`/ˈkraɪ/`
The country now face an economic crisis.

**criterion**
`/ˈkraɪ/`
Academic ability is not the sole criterion for admission to the college.

**critic**
`/ˈkrɪ/`
Critics of the scheme have said that it will not solve the problem of teenage crime.

**critical**
It is absolutely critical for us to know the truth.

## 3
**criticism**
My main criticism of the scheme is that it does nothing to help the families on low incomes.

**criticize**
He has criticized for incompetence.

**crop**
Fruit growers are gathering in a bumper crop.

**crowd**
`/aʊ/`
A vast crowd gathered in the main square.

**crown**
He has retired from the service of the Crown.

**crucial**
*vital*
The conservation of tropical forests is of crucial importance.

**cruel**
she was often cruel to her sister.

**cultural**
Students need to have time for relaxation and cultural activities, as well as academic work.







## 4


**curve**
The market demand curce has increased.





**daft**
She's as daft as brush.

**damage**
These chemicals have been found to cause serious environmental damage.



**dangerous**
It was a highly dangerous situation.

**dare**
He wanted to ask her, but he  didn't dare.

**darling**
She's the darling of fashion world.



**dead**
Police are trying to contact the family of the dead man.

## 5


**deal**
`/iː/`
They made a deal to sell the land to a property developer.



**dear**
How did the interview go, dear?

**death**
`/e/`
Cancer is the leading cause of death in women.

## 1




**decent**
`/diː/`
The majority of residents here are decent citizens.

**declare**
`/di/`
A state of emergency has been declared.

**defeat**
She was a women who hated to admit defeat.

**defence**
The first line of defence is a smoke detector.

**defend**
Students should be ready to explain and defend their views.

**definite**
`/e/`
We need to record sufficient data to enable definite conclusions to be reached.

**definitely**
The hotel centre is definitely worth a visit.

**definition**
There are many definitions of the word ""?

**deliberately**
He deliberately upset her.

**deliver**
I'm having some flowers deliverd for her birthday.

## 2
**delivery**
You can expect delivery in a week to ten days.

**demand**
Production is increasing faster than demand.



**demonstrate**
The government now has an opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to reform.

**demonstration**
The high level of calls is clear demonstration of the need for the service.



**dependent**
Your pay is dependent on how much you produce.



**depression**
`/dɪ/` `/ˈpre/`
the great depression

**depth**
`/de/`
a sea with an average depth of 35 metres

**derive**
Medically, we will derive great benefit from the technique.

## 3
**describe**
It's difficult to describe how I feel.

**description**
The booklet give a brief description of each place.

**desert**
`/ˈde/`
This area of country is mostly desert.

**deserve**
`/di/`
I think we deserve a rest after all that hard work.



**desire**
She expressed desire to visit us.

**desperate**
`/ˈdes/`
Time is running out and we were getting desperate.

**despite**
Despite all our efforts to save the school, the authorities decided to close it.

**destroy**
`/dɪ/`
The school is completely destroyed by fire.

**destruction**
The floods brought death and destruction to the area.

## 4
**determination**
Yuru shows great determination to learn English.

**determined**
She was determined to win.

**device**
Their proposal was only a device to confuse the opposition.

**devil**
*evil*
`/ˈde/`
What on earth is wrong with poor devil.

**diagram**
a diagram of heating system

**diamond**
Cut the cookie dough to diamonds.

**diary**
Did you put the meeting date in your diary.

**die**
He died in 1985 at the age of 76.



**difficulty**
If you have any difficulties, give me a call.

## 5
**dimension**
`/daɪ/`
We'll need to know the exact dimensions of the room.

**directory**
`/daɪ/`
I couldn't find your number in the telephone directory.

**disabled**
The theatre has good access for the disabled.


