## 1
**mystery** 
`/ˈmɪs/`
The way her mind worked was always a mystery to him.

**nail** 
`/neɪ/`
She hammered a nail into the wall.

**naked** 
`/ˈneɪ/`
The children ran naked through the yard.

**name** 
What's your last name?

**narrow** 
`/næ/`
The narrow passage between the cottage and the house

**nasty** 
Drivers often have a nasty habit of driving too close to cyclists.

**native** 
They never saw their native land again.

**naughty**
`/nɔː/`
You're a very naughty boy! Look what you've done.

**neat** 
`/niː/`
Everything in the house was neat and tidy.

**necessarily** 
The care of old people necessarily involves quite a lot of heavy lifting.

## 2
**necessary** 
The booklet provides all the neccessary information about the college.

**neck** 
`/ne/`
Mike rubbed the back of his neck.

**negative** 
They have a uniformly negative image of the police.

**negotiate** 
`/nɪ/`
Union leaders have negotiated an agreement for a shorter working week.

**neighbour** 
One of the neighbours complained about the noise from the party.

**neighbourhood** 
The hotel is situated in a peaceful residential neighbourhood.

**neither** 
`/ˈnaɪ/`
Neither of them can cook.

**nerve** 
Not many people have the nerve to stand up and speak in front of a large audience.

**nervous** 
She was so nervous about her exams that she couldn't sleep.

**nil** 
`/nɪ/`
Our team won by two goals to nil.

## 3
**nod** 
I asked her if she was ready to go, and she nodded.

**none** 
Although these were good students, none had a score above 60.

**nonsense** 
It is nonsense to say that mistakes are never made.

**nope** 
= no

**normal** 
A normal working week is 40 hours.

**normally** 
The journey normally takes about two hours.

**north** 
winds blowing from the north

**northern** 
Northern Europe

**nose** 
Someone punched him on the nose.

**notably** 
Notably absent from his statement was any hint of an apology.

## 4
**notion** 
She had only a vague notion of what she wanted to do.

**novel** 
a newly published science fiction novel

**nowadays** 
`/ˈnaʊə/`
Most people nowadays are aware of the importance of a healthy diet.

**nuclear** 
`/ˈnjuː/`
France's reliance on nuclear energy

**nuisance** 
What a nuisance! I've forgotten my ticket.

**numerous** 
`/ˈnjuː/`
The individuals who have contributed to this book are far too numerous to mention.

**nurse** 
`/nɜː/`
The nurse is coming to give you an injection.

**nut**  
`/nʌ/`
He just turned round and nutted me!

**obligation** 
Employers have an obligation to treat all employees equally.